Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable
Dependencies in Java Projects
Stefan Schott
Paderborn University
Paderborn, Germany
stefan.schott@upb.de
Serena Elisa Ponta
SAP Labs
Mougins, France
serena.ponta@sap.com
Wolfram Fischer
SAP SE
Stuttgart, Germany
wolfram.fischer@sap.com
Jonas Klauke
Paderborn University
Paderborn, Germany
jonas.klauke@upb.de
Eric Bodden
Paderborn University &
Fraunhofer IEM
Paderborn, Germany
eric.bodden@upb.de
Abstract
On average, 71% of the code in typical Java projects comes from
open-source software (OSS) dependencies, making OSS dependen-
cies the dominant component of modern software code bases. This
high degree of OSS reliance comes with a considerable security risk
of adding known security vulnerabilities to a code base. To rem-
edy this risk, researchers and companies have developed various
dependency scanners, which try to identify inclusions of known-
to-be-vulnerable OSS dependencies. However, there are still chal-
lenges that modern dependency scanners do not overcome, es-
pecially when it comes to dependency modifications, such as re-
compilations, re-bundlings or re-packagings, which are common in
the Java ecosystem.
To overcome these challenges, we presentJaralyzer, abytecode-
centricdependency scanner for Java.Jaralyzerdoes not rely on
the metadata or the source code of the included OSS dependencies
being available but directly analyzes a dependency’s bytecode.
Our evaluation across 56 popular OSS components demonstrates
thatJaralyzeroutperforms other popular dependency scanners
in detecting vulnerabilities within modified dependencies. It is the
only scanner capable of identifying vulnerabilities across all the
above mentioned types of modifications. But even when applied
to unmodified dependencies,Jaralyzeroutperforms the current
state-of-the-art code-centric scannerEclipse Steadyby detecting
28 more true vulnerabilities and yielding 29 fewer false warnings.
CCS Concepts
•Security and privacy → Software security engineering;•
Software and its engineering → Software maintenance tools.
Keywords
Open-source software, Software composition analysis, Dependency
scanner, Security vulnerabilities
1 Introduction
The use of open-source software (OSS) has become ubiquitous in
modern software development. OSS is now so prevalent in software
projects that third-party dependencies account for the largest por-
tion of the overall code base. According to a 2023 report by Endor
Labs on the state of dependency management [30], an average of
71% of the total code base in typical Java projects consists of OSS
code. This also means that the use of vulnerable OSS dependen-
cies poses a real threat to modern software projects as additionally
highlighted by the OWASP Top Ten ranking of the most critical ap-
plication security risks [11]. The infamouslog4shell[ 10] andequifax
breach[ 25] incidents, which had a major impact on the cybersecu-
rity world, further emphasized the risk associated with vulnerable
OSS. To this end, various open-source [18, 28, 34, 36] but also com-
mercialdependency scanners[ 15, 22, 23, 26] have been developed,
which seek to help minimize the posed threat by identifying known-
to-be vulnerable OSS dependencies used within software projects.
Metadata-basedscanners conduct dependency scans by lever-
aging the metadata associated with dependency inclusions. One
common method involves generating aSoftware-Bill-of-Materials
(SBOM) for the project under analysis. The SBOM lists all dependen-
cies included in the software project along with their identifiers and
versions. This information is then compared against a security advi-
sory of known vulnerable dependency versions, often represented
as Common Vulnerability Enumeration (CVE) entries [4]. In the
case of a Java Maven project this means creating an SBOM from the
dependency information obtained within the project’spom.xml files
and comparing it to some advisory. However, as Ponta et al. [33, 34]
have reported, this approach has multiple shortcomings. For one,
security advisories often do not contain precise information about
whichmodulesof a specific OSS are affected by a certain CVE entry,
causing metadata-based scanners to report false positives [34]. E.g.,
if one considers the popular Spring framework for Java, advisories
often assign a specific CVE entry to the whole framework, even
though only one of its 20 modules is actually affected. Even projects
using only unaffected modules will nonetheless receive vulnerabil-
ity alerts. On the other hand, vulnerabilities and patches will not
be reported by dependency scanners until the used advisories have
been updated. The median delay between public patch availability
and advisory publication is 25 days [31]. In the Maven ecosystem,
the average delay extends to 41 days. This timeframe does not even
account for the period between a fix becoming available in the
project’s source code repository and its eventual release to a public
artifact repository.
To combat these issues Ponta et al. [34] have proposed acode-
centricapproach, which does not rely on the information about
known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies in advisories but directly
arXiv:2510.19393v1  [cs.SE]  22 Oct 2025

Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden
compares thecodeof included dependencies to a database offix
commits. These fix commits represent the real code changes per-
formed within the OSS respective Git repositories that fix a specific
CVE entry. Directly relying on the fix commits, one does not have
to manually map the vulnerability to a list of affected OSS versions
first. Furthermore, having access to the exact code changes compris-
ing the fix, one exactly knows which module of the OSS is affected
by a vulnerability. Moreover, it allows for a subsequent reachability
analysis to check whether the vulnerable code segment is even
executed within the context of the including software project. This
enables the approach to reduce false positives in the detection of
vulnerabitilties when compared to metadata-based approaches.
Ponta et al. have implemented the code-centric approach in the
dependency scannerEclipse Steady. A prerequisite of the code-
centric approach is that both fix commits and scanned dependen-
cies are available in the same code representation to be comparable,
an assumption that generally holds for languages like Python or
JavaScript. In contrast, Java poses a challenge, as dependencies
are usually distributed in compiledbytecode, whereas fix commits
modify the originalsource code. To circumvent the issue of mis-
matched code representations,Eclipse Steadyattempts to retrieve
the source code of dependencies from Maven Central, the most
popular Java artifact repository. However, the source code may or
may not be available alongside the compiled artifacts and, even
when present, there is no guarantee that it actually matches the
compiled artifact. IfEclipse Steadycannot retrieve the source
code, it is unable to compare bytecode to source code [40], and thus
requires costly and error-prone manual analysis to determine if a
dependency is vulnerable.
While dependency scanners have gradually improved over the
past years, important challenges remain, which considerably im-
pair the detection performance of state-of-the-art tools. Dann et
al. [7] conducted a study evaluating the performance of six state-of-
the-art dependency scanners—both open-source and commercial—
on Java projects where dependencies were included inmodified
forms. These modifications include re-compilations, re-bundlings
and re-packagings, which as determined by Dann et al. are wide-
spread modifications in the Java ecosystem. In their investigation
of a sample of 254 vulnerable classes, they identified 67,196 arti-
facts on Maven Central that contained these classes in a modified
form, highlighting the prevalence of such modifications. In these
cases, the absence of precise metadata keeps metadata-based scan-
ners from reliably detecting known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies,
whileEclipse Steadyis hindered by the lack of source code re-
sulting from most types of modifications. A similar experiment
conducted by Dietrich et al. [ 8] further confirmed these results
and emphasized the prevalence of dependency modifications that
can transparently be applied by the popular Maven Shade Plugin,
unbeknown to developers. Such modifications can even be found
in the Java standard library.
To overcome these challenges, we proposeJaralyzer, our ap-
proach tobytecode-centricJava dependency scanning, which ex-
tends the code-centric approach defined by Ponta et al. [ 34] to
handle mismatched code representations.Jaralyzerdoes not rely
on the availability of metadata or source code, but directly com-
pares a dependency’sbytecodeagainst a fix-commit database. Due
to this capability,Jaralyzerdoes not require any manual analysis
to determine if a dependency is vulnerable and is able to reliably
detect known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies in modified forms. To
achieve this,Jaralyzeremploys techniques to compile the code
changes within a fix commit in isolation and normalizes the ob-
tained bytecode to enable a comparison independent of the used
compiler. Subsequently, it compares syntax, control and data flow
to precisely identify whether known-to-be-vulnerable dependen-
cies are included in the analyzed software project and whether
corresponding fixes have been applied or not.
Our evaluation ofJaralyzershows that, when it comes to de-
tecting known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies included in modified
form, it outperforms five other dependency scanners, four OSS and
one commercial. With a miss rate of at most 6% for vulnerabilities
in re-packaged dependencies compared to unmodified ones, it is
the only scanner capable of handling all types of modifications
identified by Dann et al [7]. But even when applied to unmodified
dependencies, when directly compared to the state-of-the-art code-
centric dependency scannerEclipse Steady,Jaralyzerreported
28 more true and 29 fewer false vulnerabilities.
To summarize, the original contributions of the paper are:
• A bytecode-centric Java dependency scanner, which does
not rely on metadata or source code being available and is
able to detect known-to-be-vulnerable OSS dependencies,
even in modified form.
•An implementation in an open-source tool 1.
• An evaluation across 56 popular Java OSS libraries us-
ing five different open-source and commercial dependency
scanners.
2 Background
In the following we introduce the fundamental topics of how Java
dependencies are included and modified.
2.1 Java Dependencies:
A Java project 𝑃 can be defined as a tuple 𝑃=(𝐶, 𝐷) , where 𝐶
represents the application code written by the project’s developers,
and 𝐷 denotes the set ofdependencies, i.e., third-party components
originating from external sources.Jaralyzerfocuses exclusively
on analyzing the set of dependencies 𝐷, and does not examine the
application code𝐶.
The termdependencyrefers to a separately distributed software
library or framework that is included in a software project [7]. In
the case of Java, these software libraries are typically distributed
as JAR archives containing thebytecodeof the library. Bytecode is
a machine-readable code representation Java source code is com-
piled to, allowing it to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine. To
manage the inclusion of dependencies, developers usually use build-
automation tools such as Maven or Gradle. In the case of Maven, the
developer specifies the groupId, artifactId and version of the
desired library within a pom.xml file, which contains the build in-
formation for the software project. These three properties, referred
to asGA V, are used to uniquely identify a library. During build
time, Maven automatically retrieves the specified dependencies
from configured artifact repositories, typically Maven Central. In
addition, Maven also resolves possible dependency version conflicts
1https://github.com/stschott/jaralyzer

Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable Dependencies in Java Projects
and retrieves transitive dependencies, which are the dependencies
of the project’s direct dependencies.
2.2 Dependency Modifications:
Dependencies in Java projects are not always distributed and in-
cluded in the straightforward way described in Section 2.1. Dann
et al. [7] have identified four types of modifications developers fre-
quently apply to OSS components, which are then in turn included
by other developers as dependencies. In the remainder of this paper,
‘modifications’ refers to these four types.
Type 1 (patched):This type of modification frequently occurs
when developers fork the source code of an OSS and modify or
patch it. Dependencies modified this way do not include the orig-
inal bytecode but the bytecode obtained whenre-compilingthe
modified source code. Furthermore, one typically modifies the GAV
by appending a suffix likefixorpatchto it.
Type 2 (Uber-JAR):In this type of modification, developersre-
bundlemultiple OSS into a single JAR file, usually referred to as
Uber-JAR. This type of modification is sometimes indicated by the
JAR file containing jar-with-dependencies or uber in its file
name. In contrast to type 1, the original bytecode of each individual
OSS is preserved.
Type 3 (bare Uber-JAR):Type 3 modifications are similar to type
2 in the sense that multiple OSS are re-bundled into a single JAR file.
However, in contrast to type 2, the metadata contained within the
JAR file (pom.xml, META-INF folder and file timestamps) is removed.
This type of modification can mostly be observed in legacy JAR files,
which have been created before the advent of assembly plugins.
Type 4 (re-packaged Uber-JAR):Type 4 modifications are also
similar to type 2. However, instead of just re-bundling multiple
OSS into a single JAR file, the OSS arere-packaged. This involves
modifying their original package names, either by prepending a
string or by replacing them entirely with new names [ 13]. This
is often done to avoid name clashes and version conflicts. In such
cases the original bytecode of the OSS is changed substantially,
because all references within the code need to be adjusted.
3 Bytecode-centric Dependency Scanning
In the following we presentJaralyzer, abytecode-centricdepen-
dency scanning approach.
3.1 Overview
Figure 1 shows an overview ofJaralyzer’s architecture. The ap-
proach consists of two major stages:(1)the knowledge-base cre-
ation and the(2)dependency scanning. The constructed knowledge
base serves as the foundation for the dependency scanning. It con-
tains all vulnerabilities thatJaralyzercan detect.
As a code-centric approach,Jaralyzeruses fix commits as input,
which are commits fixing vulnerabilities in the source code reposi-
tories of OSS. In the first step of the knowledge-base creation stage,
Jaralyzercompiles the fix commits to bytecode using two tech-
niques: First it applies a compilation heuristic and, if this heuristic
fails, it usesJess[ 38] to compile commit changes within source
code repositories. After compilation of the fix commits,Jaralyzer
normalizes the resulting bytecode usingjNorm[ 39] to enable a
Fix-commit
Database
Normalization
(jNorm)
CPG
Generation &
Triplet
Extraction
Knowledge Base
Normalization
(jNorm)
CPG
Generation &
Triplet
Extraction
Triplet 
Matching
Construct
Extraction &
Matching
Scan
Report
Knowledge-Base Creation
Dependency Scanning
Java
Project
Dependency
Infomation
Processing StepArtifact
Compilation
Heuristic
Jess
Compilation
Dependency
Retrieval
Figure 1: Overview ofJaralyzer
subsequent comparison. This step is necessary to remove differ-
ences that exist solely due to the use of different compilers. If not
removed, those differences would interfere with matching the ap-
plied fix in the dependency scanning stage. Afterwards, for each
changed method in a given fix commit,Jaralyzergenerates a code
property graph (CPG) [46], a representation that combines syntax,
control flow, and data dependency information of a method. Finally,
Jaralyzerextracts comparable string triplets [ 3], which encode
edge information, from the generated CPGs and stores them in
the knowledge base.Jaralyzeruses these triplets to identify the
presence of the fix in the next stage.
To scan a software project for known-to-be-vulnerable depen-
dencies,Jaralyzerperforms the steps described in the dependency
scanning stage (see Figure 1). First,Jaralyzeruses the underlying
build-automation tool of the project being scanned to extract all
its dependencies.Jaralyzerthen scans each of the extracted JAR
files individually for potential vulnerabilities. To do so,Jaralyzer
matches allconstructs(class, interface or method) within the JAR
file to its knowledge base. IfJaralyzeridentifies a matching con-
struct, it indicates that an included dependency in the software
project may be vulnerable. However, at this point, it remains un-
clear whether the version in use has already applied the fix. To
determine the presence of the fix, all constructs added, removed
or changed in the fix are considered. In particular, if the scanned
construct is a methodchangedin the fix—which is the most com-
mon scenario—Jaralyzernormalizes it, generates a CPG for it and
transforms it into comparable string triplets. Finally,Jaralyzer
compares the triplets yielded from the scanned method’s CPG to
the triplets stored within its knowledge base. Based on the degree
of matched triplets,Jaralyzerreports the method as fixed or vul-
nerable. This procedure is performed for each construct in each JAR
file, resulting in a final report that contains all identified vulnerable
dependencies.
In the following we will describe each processing step in detail.
3.2 Knowledge-Base Creation
The knowledge-base creation stage is essential to code-centric de-
pendency scanning. In contrast to scanners relying on metadata,
Jaralyzerrequires the bytecode corresponding to vulnerability
fixing commits. This stage only needs to be executed once to cre-
ateJaralyzer’s knowledge base, which is then available for every

Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden
Fix
commit(s)
changed Java files
Extract
GAV
move release-tag
Retrieve
Maven
Central OSS 
JAR-file
Depen-
dency
Java 
Compiler Jess
Bytecode
(pre-fix)
Bytecode
(post-fix)
Repository
pre-fix
post-fix
Processing StepArtifact
Figure 2: Detailed overview ofJaralyzer’s compilation step
dependency scan. After construction, for every CVE entry, the
knowledge base contains thefully qualified name(FQN) of each
construct modified in the fix commits related to that CVE. Each CVE
entry contains at least one modified construct. The FQN uniquely
identifies a construct by specifying its full package and class name.
Additionally, the knowledge base contains each construct’s modifi-
cation type (added, removed, or changed), and the precise bytecode
additions, removals and changes, extracted from the CPG as string
triplets.
3.2.1 Fix-commit Database.As a bytecode-centric approach,Jara-
lyzerrelies on a fix-commit database as input to create its knowl-
edge base. A fix-commit database maps CVE entries to the commits
in an OSS project’s source code repository that fix the respective
CVE entries. Possible fix-commit database options include SAP’s
Project KB[35], CVEFixes [2] or MoreFixes [1].
3.2.2 Compilation.As dependencies are included in bytecode for-
mat but fix commits are in source code, to enable a comparison
Jaralyzerneeds to generate bytecode for each construct modi-
fied by the fix commits of each CVE. However, simply triggering
a standard compilation with the configured build-automation tool
is insufficient, as it frequently leads to failure [ 14, 38, 42, 44, 49].
As shown by Schott et al. [38], performing a standard compilation
following the approach of Tufano et al. [44] successfully compiles
only 14.9% of CVE entries in theProject KBfix-commit database.
However, for bytecode-centric dependency scanning one does not
need to compile the entire code base, but only the source code files
modified within the respective fix commit. Leveraging this fact
through a customcompilation heuristicsignificantly improves the
compilation success rate (see Section 4.1). Instead of compiling the
entire code base,Jaralyzerattempts to download all dependencies
needed to compile the files modified in the fix commits and then
compiles these files in isolation. Second, if the heuristic fails, it
applies the commit compilation toolJess[38].
Figure 2 shows a detailed overview of the compilation process.
It starts by cloning the source code repository corresponding to
fix commits of a given CVE entry. The fix might be contained
within a single commit or segmented across multiple commits.
Figure 3 shows an exemplary version history of a project with the
fix consisting of the three fix commits FC1–FC3. At firstJaralyzer
collects all Java source code files (excluding test files) changed
within the commits FC1–FC3. To be able to extract the precise
bytecode changes performed in the fix,Jaralyzerneeds to compile
Release 1 Release 2
Tag 1Tag 2 Tag 3 Tag 4
FC 1 FC 2 FC 3
pre-fix post-fix
Figure 3: Exemplary version history of an OSS project with
three fix commits. FC = Fix Commit
the changed files before and after the fix is applied. Thus, after
collecting the changed files,Jaralyzerchecks out the revision
beforethe first fix commit (FC1) is applied (see pre-fix in Figure 3).
To compile the changed files, we need to retrieve all necessary
dependencies. This includes a compiled release version of the OSS
project, allowing us to avoid compiling the entire project and in-
stead focus only on the changed files. We do not use the compiled
release version to extract the fix, as the original fix might have been
further changed before the actual release and only use it as compi-
lation supplement. Directly using the release may interfere with
the matching in modified cases, especially for type 1 modifications
(see Section 2.2). Here developers sometimes copy the original fix
and manually apply it to their forked project.
To retrieve the compiled release version,Jaralyzerfirst tries
to extract the GAV identifier from the project (see Figure 2). This
identifier is used to lookup if this specific version of the artifact
exists on Maven Central. IfJaralyzerdoes not find an artifact on
Maven Central corresponding to the extracted coordinates, it will
checkout the next repository revision tagged with a release tag and
repeat the process. Tags are typically used to mark release versions
of the project, however sometimes developers tag a specific revision
of the project that is not released on Maven Central. Within the
example shown in Figure 3 one can see that Tag 3 is not pointing to-
wards a release version of the project, but Tag 4 is. Thus,Jaralyzer
needs to move the tag at least two times to find a corresponding
release on Maven Central. We perform this step up to ten times, as
our empirical testing revealed no cases where additional iterations
resulted in a successful compilation. IfJaralyzerfinds a release
version on Maven Central, it retrieves the corresponding JAR file
and all available dependencies configured within the pom.xml file,
which is hosted alongside the JAR file. Extracting the GAV iden-
tifier typically works well for Maven projects, as one can simply
invoke Maven to obtain this information. For Gradle projects this
is often not as trivial. As Gradle build configurations are based
on a Groovy/Kotlin-based language, Gradle first needs to execute
the configuration scripts before the GAV can be extracted. How-
ever, this execution often fails for outdated builds. In such cases,
we manually inspect the project’s configuration scripts to extract
the GAV and provide it to the compilation process. Finally, using
the retrieved dependencies, as well as the pre-compiled JAR file
from Maven Central,Jaralyzerwill forward the collected changed
source code files from the repository, to a JDK Java compiler. If
the compilation is successful,Jaralyzerwill obtain the bytecode
of files changed in commits FC1–FC3 (see Figure 3), before the fix
is applied. Now to obtain the bytecode of the filesafterthe fix is
applied,Jaralyzerwill repeat the same process analogously for

Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable Dependencies in Java Projects
the post-fix version, by checking out the revision that commit FC3
is pointing to, as depicted in Figure 3. If the compilation via the
heuristic fails,Jaralyzerwill invokeJess[ 38], a tool that has been
specifically designed for the purpose of compiling commit changes
within Java source code repositories in isolation. Although, this is
only a secondary option, asJessmight produce bytecode that is
slightly different from the original bytecode and thus might cause
interference for a subsequent comparison. IfJaralyzeris able to
compile only one of the pre- or post-fix revisions with the Java
compiler, it will instead attempt to compile both revisions withJess
to ensure a consistent bytecode representation.
3.2.3 Normalization.Obtaining the bytecode of fix commits alone
is not sufficient for detecting the presence of vulnerable bytecode
in included dependencies. Since we do not know what compilation
environment the original dependencies have been compiled in, and
different Java compilation environments (e.g. different compilers,
versions and settings) produce different bytecode for equal source
code [6, 39], the bytecode produced byJaralyzermay differ from
the one included in the scanned dependencies. Since vulnerability
fixes are often small, involving only a few lines of code, compilation
differences may well mask the original fix and make a comparison
impossible. To make the bytecode comparable, we applyjNorm[39]
right after compilation.jNormis a tool to normalize bytecode by
removing nearly all differences introduced by different compilation
environments. After applyingjNorm, compilation differences are
mostly removed and the bytecode can be compared.
3.2.4 CPG Generation & Triplet Extraction.After normalization,
Jaralyzeruses theSootUp[ 21] static analysis framework to gen-
erate Code Property Graphs (CPG) for each method changed in
the fix commits. A CPG [46] is a graph-based representation of an
individual method that combines syntax information in form of an
abstract syntax tree, control flow information in form of a control
flow graph and data, as well as control dependencies in form of a
program dependence graph. To extract the precise code instructions
that comprise the fix, one must compute the differences between
the CPG of the method before the fix was applied and the CPG of
the method after the fix was applied. This requires determining
subgraph isomorphisms—a problem that is NP-complete—which
makes a direct comparison of CPGs computationally expensive [3].
We thus resort to an approximation proposed by Bowman and
Huang [3] and extract graphtriplets. For every edge 𝑒 within a
given CPG 𝑔, a triplet 𝑡 is defined as (𝑛𝑠, 𝑒𝑙, 𝑛𝑡 ) where 𝑒𝑙 denotes
the label of edge 𝑒, 𝑛𝑠 denotes the source node label and 𝑛𝑡 the
target node label of edge 𝑒 within graph 𝑔. The set 𝑇 is the set of
all triplets for a given CPG 𝑔. Once we have created a CPG 𝑔𝑣𝑢𝑙 and
a CPG 𝑔𝑓 𝑖𝑥 for a method before and after the fix has been applied
we extract the respective triplet sets 𝑇𝑣𝑢𝑙 and 𝑇𝑓 𝑖𝑥 . We then define
thecontext triplets 𝐶𝑇 ,positive triplets 𝑃𝑇 , andnegative triplets 𝑁𝑇 :
𝐶𝑇=𝑇 𝑣𝑢𝑙 ∩𝑇 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 𝑃𝑇=𝑇 𝑓 𝑖𝑥 \𝑇 𝑣𝑢𝑙 𝑁𝑇=𝑇 𝑣𝑢𝑙 \𝑇 𝑓 𝑖𝑥
𝐶𝑇 contains all triplets that have not been changed by the fix, 𝑃𝑇
contains triplets that have been added by the fix and 𝑁𝑇 contains
triplets that have been removed by the fix. Thus,𝑃𝑇 and 𝑁𝑇 contain
the fine-grained code changes performed within the fix. Finally,
we store the generated triplet sets for each method inJaralyzer’s
knowledge base, alongside the information about the FQN of the
method and the affecting CVE entry.
3.3 Dependency Scanning
In the dependency scanning stage,Jaralyzeris applied to a Java
software project containing dependency information and tries to
identify whether known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies are in-
cluded.
3.3.1 Dependency Retrieval.Jaralyzerstarts with retrieving all de-
pendencies included in the scanned project. Depending on the used
build-automation tool, it invokes a command of the tool (e.g. the
copy-dependencies goal of the maven-dependency-plugin [12])
to retrieve the JAR files corresponding to each dependency as de-
fined in the project’s dependency information (e.g. pom.xml for
Maven projects).
3.3.2 Construct Extraction & Matching.In this step,Jaralyzer
individually processes each previously retrieved dependency JAR
file, first extracting the FQN of every construct within it. Then,
Jaralyzerqueries the knowledge base with each extracted FQN
to verify if any of these FQNs is associated with a vulnerability.
This query results in a set of CVE entries potentially affecting the
JAR file.Jaralyzerproceeds to scan the JAR file for each potential
CVE entry individually. Here it distinguishes between constructs
removed, added or changed by the fix:(1)If, within the scanned
JAR file, a construct is detected that is marked asremovedby the fix
of the respective CVE entry,Jaralyzerclassifies the corresponding
construct as vulnerable, otherwise as fixed.(2)If a method is marked
asaddedby the fix but is missing from the scanned JAR file while
its declaring class is present,Jaralyzerclassifies the construct as
vulnerable, otherwise as fixed.(3)IfJaralyzerdetects a method in
the scanned JAR file that has beenchangedby the fix, it extracts the
method body and proceeds with normalization (see Section 3.2.3)
and CPG generation (see Section 3.2.4), following the same process
used in the knowledge-base creation stage.
3.3.3 Triplet Matching.After generating a CPG 𝑔𝑚 and extracting
the set of triplets 𝑇𝑚 for the matched and normalized method (see
Section 3.2.4),Jaralyzerperforms a triplet matching to determine
whether the method is in a vulnerable or fixed state. To do so, it
compares the triplet set 𝑇𝑚 to the set of positive triplets 𝑃𝑇 and
negative triplets 𝑁𝑇 of the matched method within the knowledge
base. If the equation |𝑁𝑇∩𝑇 𝑚 | ≥ |𝑃𝑇∩𝑇 𝑚 | holds, it indicates that
the matched method is more or equally similar to the methodbefore
the fix has been applied.Jaralyzerthus classifies the matched
method as vulnerable. If the fix did not remove or change any code,
but just added code within a method, the set of negative triplets
𝑁𝑇 is always empty. In such cases,Jaralyzerverifies, whether
|𝑃𝑇∩𝑇 𝑚 | ≥𝜃 𝑃𝑇 , for a configurable threshold𝜃 𝑃𝑇 .
In the end,Jaralyzercounts these matched constructs that are
associated with a specific vulnerability and have been classified as
vulnerable. If the number of constructs classified as vulnerable is
greater than or equal to those classified as fixed,Jaralyzerreports
the included JAR file as vulnerable to this specific CVE entry. Es-
pecially when the initial fix is changed over time, it might be the
case that some constructs are reverted to their pre-fix state and
Jaralyzerthus classifies some constructs as fixed and others as

Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden
vulnerable. In cases involving discrepancies, tools such asEclipse
Steadyrequire human intervention to reach a decision. In contrast,
becauseJaralyzeris designed to minimize human involvement,
we decided on this majority criterion, which yielded the best perfor-
mance in empirical testing. Finally,Jaralyzercontinues to process
the next CVE entry potentially affecting the JAR file.
After scanning all provided JAR files,Jaralyzergenerates a final
scan report that lists all discovered vulnerable dependencies along
with their associated CVE entries.
3.4 Re-Packaging Detection
Jaralyzerhas been designed to not require any metadata about
included dependencies within its dependency scanning stage. This
means that, by construction, it does not impactJaralyzer’s detec-
tion capabilities whether the included dependencies are re-compiled,
re-bundled or their associated metadata is removed (type 1–3 mod-
ifications). As long as the bytecode is available,Jaralyzerwill
be able to scan them for known-to-be-vulnerable OSS. However,
to uniquely identify constructs and to initially match them to its
knowledge base,Jaralyzerdoes rely on their FQNs. The FQNs of
constructs, however, change when the dependency is re-packaged
(type 4 modification, see Section 2.2). Listing 1 shows a source code
example (for illustration purposes) of such a re-packaging, which is
typically applied to bytecode using tools like the Maven Shade Plu-
gin [8]. Listing 1a shows the original class, while Listing 1b shows
the same class, but re-packaged. The comments in lines 4 and 7,
above class C and method foo, show their respective FQNs. Differ-
ences between both listings are highlighted. Due to re-packaging,
which prepends the string “r” in front of each package name within
the dependency, the FQNs of all constructs change and will never
match with the knowledge base in case a vulnerability is associ-
ated with method foo in Listing 1a. To cover type 4 modifications,
Jaralyzeruses are-packaging detectionmode that does not rely
on FQNs for matching. The re-packaging detection follows the
same process shown in Figure 1, yet instead of relying on FQNs
during the construct-matching step, it uses theunqualifiednames
of constructs (class nameswithoutpackage names). E.g., instead
of querying the knowledge base for the fully qualified method sig-
nature r.a.C: void foo(r.a.b.X) (see Listing 1b),Jaralyzer
will query for all methods in the knowledge base having theun-
qualifiedsignature C: void foo(X) . As the unqualified signature
does no longer uniquely identify methods,Jaralyzeradditionally
checks for theclass contextto avoid spurious matches: it checks
whether all sibling methods and fields of the scanned method are
also present in the method matched in the knowledge base. The
information about the class context has also been collected during
the knowledge-base creation stage. As an example, if the method
name foo from Listing 1b) matches the knowledge base, the class
context will consider the sibling field baz (line 6 in Listing 1b). If
the class context exceeds a configurable threshold 𝜃𝐶𝐶,Jaralyzer
considers the method as a correct match.
Finally, the triplet matching step also slightly differs fromJara-
lyzer’s default process. As in Java bytecode type names are always
fully resolved,Jaralyzerhas to unqualify all triplets. E.g., con-
sider the call of method bar in line 9 of Listing 1b. Within the
bytecode, and thus within its corresponding triplet, the method call
1package a;
2import a.b.X;
3
4// a.C
5class C {
6int baz;
7// a.C: void foo(a.b.X)
8void foo(X x) {
9int i = x.bar();
10}
11}
(a) Original class
1package r. a;
2import r. a.b.X;
3
4// r. a.C
5class C {
6int baz;
7// r. a.C: void foo( r. a.b.X)
8void foo(X x) {
9int i = x.bar();
10}
11}
(b) Re-packaged class
Listing 1: Re-packaging example
will be expressed with the fully qualified name of X (i.e., r.a.b.X).
Thus, before matching, we unqualify all triplets within the scanned
JAR and the knowledge base. To avoid false-positive matches, be-
fore comparing the triplet set of the scanned method 𝑇𝑚 to the
set of positive and negative triplets, we verify that the equation
|𝐶𝑇∩𝑇 𝑚 |>𝜃 𝐶𝑇 holds for a configurable threshold 𝜃𝐶𝑇 . Doing this,
we verify whether the part of the method that hasnotbeen changed
by the fix, expressed by the set of context triplets𝐶𝑇 , is sufficiently
similar to the scanned method.
These adjustments however, come with the cost of potentially
missing vulnerable dependencies or erroneously reporting a de-
pendency as vulnerable, often depending on the choice of the con-
figurable thresholds. Thus, depending on the use case, the default
mode and the re-packaging detection mode can be run in tandem
or independent of each other. When only running the default mode,
one will not identify any re-packaged known-to-be-vulnerable de-
pendencies, while only running the re-packaging detection mode,
one might receive more false-positive vulnerability reports.
Although re-packaging detection could be added as a step within
Jaralyzer’s main pipeline, we added it as a parallel mode to avoid
repeated, costly executions of the full pipeline, including normaliza-
tion and CPG-generation, caused by ambiguous method signatures.
By providing two independent modes, developers can either run
both or choose the one that best suits their specific needs.
4 Evaluation
In the following we evaluate the effectiveness ofJaralyzer. To do
so we answer the following research questions.
RQ1: How doesJaralyzercompare to state-of-the-art depen-
dency scanners in identifyingmodifiedknown-to-be-
vulnerable dependencies?
RQ2: How doesJaralyzercompare to the state-of-the-art
code-centric dependency scanner in identifyingunmodi-
fiedknown-to-be-vulnerable dependencies?
RQ3:How runtime-efficient isJaralyzer?
The first research question focuses on the challenge that cur-
rent dependency scanners face, when dependencies are included in
modified form. The second research question evaluatesJaralyzer’s
detection performance in the general case, when dependencies are

Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable Dependencies in Java Projects
Achilles
Benchmark
Generator
Unmodified
Type 1
Type 2
Type 3
Type 4
Jaralyzer
Eclipse
Steady
OWASP DC
GitHub
Dependabot
Com
Benchmark
Scanners
Scan Report
30 Reports
OSV
Scanner
Dependency
Information
(pom.xml)
Artifact
Processing Step
Figure 4: Overview of the experimental setup
not modified. To do so, we compareJaralyzeragainst the state-
of-the-art code-centric dependency scannerEclipse Steady. The
third research question evaluatesJaralyzer’s runtime efficiency.
4.1 Experimental Setup
Figure 4 shows an overview of our experimental setup. The eval-
uation is based on theAchillesbenchmark generator created by
Dann et al. [7].Achillescomes with a dataset of 534 distinct OSS
artifacts and allows for an automatic creation of Maven projects
having dependencies on a selected subset of these artifacts, either
in unmodified or modified form (type 1–4). Most of the provided ar-
tifacts are different versions of the same OSS. We only included the
latest provided version2 of each distinct OSS (unique groupId and
artifactId), as including multiple versions of the same OSS within a
single project would lead to version conflicts. Using theAchilles
benchmark generator we created five distinct Maven projects, each
having 56 artifacts as dependencies, including popular OSS such as
Guava, Spring and Jackson-Databind. According to Endor Labs [31],
these are among the Java OSS accounting for most vulnerability find-
ings. We kept the 56 artifacts together in a single project, as splitting
them should not impact tool behavior and would require introduc-
ing arbitrary splitting criteria. Based on the definition presented in
Section 2.1, we create five distinct projects𝑃=(𝐶, 𝐷) , with 𝐶 being
empty as no application code is provided and𝐷containing the 56
artifacts fromAchillesas dependencies. While one of the created
projects contained the dependencies in unmodified form, the other
four projects containedmodifieddependencies according to types
1–4 (see Section 2.2). We then provided the dependency information
(pom.xml files) belonging to each of the generated projects to six
different dependency scanners:Jaralyzer,Eclipse Steady[ 34],
OWASP DC [28], GitHub Dependabot [16], OSV Scanner [18] and a
commercial dependency scanner (Com). Applying each tool to the
five different projects within our benchmark, we obtained a total of
30 scan reports containing the CVE entries that each tool detected
for the individual projects.
AsJaralyzer’s knowledge base, we use SAP’sProject KB[ 35],
as it is also the knowledge base utilized byEclipse Steady. It
contains a total of 1,297 manually-curated CVEs from 2005–2023,
affecting popular and industry-relevant Java and Python OSS. We
2For OSS comprised of multiple modules, e.g. Spring and Jetty, we did not include the
latest version provided inAchillesbut the version with the most compatible modules
filtered out all entries that do not affect Java OSS or include no
changes to Java source code files fromProject KB. This left us
with 733 relevant entries.Jaralyzerwas able to compile 542 of
these 733 entries using its compilation heuristic (see Section 3.2.2).
For 170 of these compilations we had to supplement additional
information about GAVs.Jess[ 38] was able to compile 122 of the
remaining entries (54 full and 68 partial compilations). Thus, lever-
aging the fact that only files modified in the fix commits need to be
compiled,Jaralyzerwas able to compile 664/733 (90.6%) entries of
Project KBfor Java OSS. We also performed an investigation of
the failed cases. Fix commits are applied in-between two releases
(see Figure 3). Whenever there are code dependencies towards the
release versions beforeandafter the commits, the compilation fails,
as we can only provide one of the versions for compilation. Further-
more, in few cases the compiled release version or the dependencies
of the project to be compiled are not stored on Maven Central but
on different repositories.
In total, leveraging the fact that only few files need to be com-
piled,Jaralyzerachieves a comparatively high compilation success
rate on Java repository snapshots [14, 42, 49], bringing the 14.9%
success rate reported by Schott et al. [38] when applying the proce-
dure of Tufano et al. [44] onProject KB, up to 90%. Nevertheless,
there remains room for improvement to enable the detection of all
CVE entries within theProject KBfix-commit database.
All dependency scanners were executed within a Docker con-
tainer (v26.1.4) running Alpine Linux v3.19 with Eclipse Temurin
JDK 17. The system running the container, was configured to use
four cores of an Intel Xeon E5-2695 v3 (2.3 GHz) CPU and 32GB
of RAM. Furthermore, we used OWASP DC v11.1.0, OSV Scanner
v1.4.3 andEclipse Steadyv3.2.5. GitHub Dependabot was executed
in December 2024. We did not executeEclipse Steady’s reacha-
bility analysis, as our evaluation focuses on comparing detection
performance.Eclipse Steadyclassifies certain reported vulnerabil-
ities as “unknown”, requiring manual analysis (57 in the unmodified
benchmark, all of them in the modified benchmarks). In fact, for 4
out of the 56 artifacts in the unmodified benchmark, the source code
is not available on Maven Central and for the modified benchmarks,
no source code is available. We count these cases as reported vulner-
abilities. It is worth noting that, even when source code is available,
there is no guarantee that it is accurate: Maven Central does not ver-
ify if the source code matches the actual bytecode and even allows
uploading placeholder files that contain no source code at all [41].
Another interesting observation we made is thatEclipse Steady
performs significantly worse whenAchillespackages the artifacts
on Windows compared to Linux, so we letAchillespackage all
artifacts on a Linux machine. Finally, we executedJaralyzerin de-
fault and re-packaging detection mode and configured the (default)
threshold values: 𝜃𝑃𝑇 = 0.5, 𝜃𝐶𝐶 = 0.3, 𝜃𝐶𝑇 = 0.3. Through empirical
testing, we found these values to provide the best trade off between
detecting re-packaged known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies and
minimizing wrong alerts.

Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden
Table 1: Detected CVE entries by each scanner in compari-
son toJaralyzeron modified dependency inclusions. Bold
numbers indicate CVE entries missed byJaralyzer.
Agreed Type 1 Type 2 Type 3 Type 4
Jaralyzer 61 6158 58 54
Steady 59 61 61 -
Jaralyzer 78 78 78 7874
OW ASP DC 74 56 - 56
Jaralyzer 57 57 57 5756
Dependabot 56 - - -
Jaralyzer 64 64 64 6462
OSV Scanner - - - -
Jaralyzer 72 72 72 7271
Com 72 - - -
4.2 RQ1: How doesJaralyzercompare to
state-of-the-art dependency scanners in
identifyingmodifiedknown-to-be-
vulnerable dependencies?
In this research question we evaluateJaralyzer’s performance on
modifieddependencies, which pose a major challenge for current
dependency scanners [7, 8]. To measure the effectiveness of depen-
dency scanners on modified dependencies, Dann et al. used a small
benchmark of seven distinct artifacts created with theAchilles
benchmark generator, applying the same modifications as we did in
our experimental setup (see Section 4.1). To determine whether each
tool reported a true or false positive, they rely on a ground truth,
which they have semi-automatically uncovered within their [ 7]
study and added to theAchillesbenchmark generator. We manu-
ally inspected the ground truth used in their experiment and un-
covered that it is not fully accurate. Even in their small benchmark
containing only 7 distinct artifacts and 15 distinct CVE entries, two
of the test cases are incorrect. They report httpclient 4.1.3 as being
affected by CVE-2015-5262, whereas it only affects httpclient as of
version 4.33. Furthermore, they erroneously do not consider CVE-
2018-11040 as affecting spring-webmvc 5.0.0.RELEASE4. Because of
these inaccuracies, we decided not to rely on the ground truth pro-
vided byAchilles. Instead, we compareJaralyzerhead-to-head
with each of the five other tools within our setup. We assume that
if a tool is unaffected by a specific type of modification, it should
report the same CVE entries for both the unmodified and modi-
fied benchmarks. First, we filter all the CVE entries where both
toolsagreeupon the respective CVE entry affecting the unmodified
benchmark. These agreed upon CVE entries are the only ones we
consider for the modified benchmarks. Then, we investigate how
many of the same CVE entries reported for the unmodified bench-
mark by both tools are also reported for the type 1–4 benchmarks.
Table 1 presents the results of this experiment. It shows the head-
to-head comparison ofJaralyzerwith each of the tools and the
number of agreed upon CVE entries for the unmodified benchmark
(column “CVEs”). Columns “Type 1” to “Type 4” show how many
3https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HTTPCLIENT-1478
4https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JAVA-ORGSPRINGFRAMEWORK-467268
of agreed upon CVE entries are reported by each tool for the type
1–4 benchmarks. None of the toolsJaralyzeris compared against
is able to handle all types of modifications. While some tools per-
form better on certain types of modifications, e.g.,Eclipse Steady
performing well on types 1–3, GitHub Dependabot, OSV Scanner
and the commercial tool completely fail for type 2–4 modifications.
Throughout type 1–3 modifications,Jaralyzerdoes not miss any
CVE entry, except for three in its comparison toEclipse Steady.
A detailed investigation of these entries reveals this to be an in-
teresting case, where the three missed CVE entries are actually
false positivesfor the unmodified benchmark reported by bothJar-
alyzerandEclipse Steady. These false positives are caused by the
code-centric nature of the tools. The corresponding CVE entries
(CVE-2013-6429, CVE-2014-0225, CVE-2015-2080) are affecting the
multi-module projects Spring and Jetty. If the fix commits associ-
ated with a CVE entry modify code across multiple modules of a
project, even though the vulnerability only affects a single module,
this may interfere with detection in certain cases. For example,
CVE-2015-2080 affects thejetty-httpmodule of the Jetty project,
however, its fix commits modify code in both thejetty-httpand
jetty-utilmodules. Now, if the JAR files corresponding to jetty-http
and jetty-util are scanned individually, both tools erroneously re-
port jetty-util as being vulnerable, since the majority of the fix
code, which is applied to jetty-http, cannot be identified within
jetty-util. However, in type 2–4 modifications, all dependencies
are re-bundled into a single JAR-file. This then allows the tools to
match all code changes from the respective fix commits at once. In
contrast toEclipse Steady,Jaralyzeris able to take advantage
of this, and correctly determines that the re-bundled JAR file is
unaffected by these CVE entries, reducing the signaled entries from
61 to 58 (54 for type 4). An important point to consider is that,
due to the unavailability of source code, all CVE entries flagged by
Eclipse Steadyin the modified benchmarks, including those not
agreed to byJaralyzer, are classified as “unknown”, meaning that
Eclipse Steadyrequires manual analysis for each case.
None of the compared tools is able to handle type 4 modifica-
tions, except for OWASP DC, which still misses 22 CVE entries.
For type 4 modifications,Jaralyzer, even though it does not find
all CVE entries it detected in the other benchmarks, considerably
outperforms the other tools. The missed CVE entries are caused
by not being able to rely on the FQNs and thusJaralyzerhaving
to rely on its re-packaging detection mode with the configured
thresholds. To further assess whether modifications affectJara-
lyzer’sprecision, we examined whether it reported CVE entries for
type 1—4 modifications that were not reported for the unmodified
benchmark. This did not occur.
While our results show that no tool within our experimental
setup, exceptJaralyzer, is able to effectively handle modified de-
pendencies, we are not fully able to confirm the results of Dann et
al. Regarding the ability to handle different types of modifications,
our results align with those of Dann et al., with e.g. OWASP DC
being the only tool to partially support type 4 modifications. How-
ever, unlike their findings, we do not observe the same significant
performance degradation for modifications that the tools can still
partially handle (e.g., types 1–3 forEclipse Steady), even when
accounting for the inaccurate ground truth.

Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable Dependencies in Java Projects
Finally, we evaluatedJaralyzeron the small benchmark (with
adjusted ground truth) used within Dann et al. ’s study.Jaralyzer
achieved 100% recall and precision across all modification types.
Among the evaluated tools,Jaralyzeris the only one capa-
ble of handling all types of modified dependency inclusions,
missing at most 6% of vulnerabilities in type 4 modifications.
4.3 RQ2:UnmodifiedDependencies Evaluation
This research question considers the scenario wherenomodifica-
tions are applied to the dependency inclusions. To evaluateJara-
lyzer’s detection performance, we directly compare it to the state-
of-the-art code-centric dependency scannerEclipse Steady. We
perform a study similar to the one conduced by Ponta et al. [34],
where they compare the findings ofEclipse Steadyto the find-
ings of OWASP DC and manually review the cases where the tools
disagree. In their conducted study they determine thatEclipse
Steadysignificantly outperforms OWASP DC and detects consid-
erably fewer false positives while also finding more true positives.
Thus, we compareJaralyzertoEclipse Steady.
As reported in Section 4.2, there are 61 CVE entries that both
tools report and agree upon for the unmodified benchmark. In this
RQ we primarily focus on the cases where the toolsdisagree. We
only considered the 664 CVE entries shared across the respective
knowledge bases ofJaralyzerandEclipse Steady.
Tables 2a and 2b present the CVE entries only reported by one
of the tools. There are 43 CVE entries, whichJaralyzerreports but
Eclipse Steadydoes not (Table 2a). Conversely,Eclipse Steady
reports 44 CVE entries thatJaralyzerdoes not (Table 2b). As
previously noted, we consider CVE entries that are part of both
knowledge bases.
For each of the reported CVE entries we performed a manual
investigation to determine whether it is a true or false report. To do
so we considered four different OSS vulnerability advisories. In par-
ticular we considered the GitHub Advisory Database (GA) [17], the
National Vulnerability Database (NVD) [27], the Snyk Vulnerability
Database (SV) [24], andProject KB(KB) [ 35]. Although we in-
cluded the OSV Scanner in our experiments, we do not consider the
OSV database in this experiment, as it primarily aggregates existing
vulnerability data (e.g. NVD and GA) and does not provide inde-
pendent classification of new vulnerabilities [19]. In fact,Project
KBcontains not only fix commits that we used as described in Sec-
tion 4.1, but also manual assessments indicating whether an artifact
is affected by a specific CVE entry.Eclipse Steadyuses these man-
ual assessments to enhance its detection performance and cope with
its inability to compare source code with bytecode. To not interfere
with our experiments, we removed these manual assessments from
Eclipse Steady’s andJaralyzer’s respective knowledge bases.
However we use them for our manual investigation. We consider a
CVE report to be a true positive (false positive, resp.) for an artifact,
if all advisories that contain the CVE entry agree on the artifact
being affected (not affected, resp.) by the given CVE entry. Two
authors independently verified whether the advisories listed the
respective CVE entry to be affecting the specific artifact and version
as reported by either tool. Furthermore, to analyze the causes of
disagreement between the tools, we reviewed their individual scan
Table 2: Disjunct CVE reports ofJaralyzerandEclipse
Steadyfor the unmodified benchmark
✓= true positive;✗= false positive
(a)Jaralyzerreports
CVE KBGANVDSV
commons-fileupload-1.3.2
CVE-2016-6793a - ✗ ✗ ✗
dom4j-1.6.1
CVE-2020-10683- ✓ ✓ ✓
itextpdf-5.5.0
CVE-2017-9096- ✓ ✓ ✓
jackson-databind-2.9.7
CVE-2019-12086✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-12384✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-12814✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-14379✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-14439✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-14892✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-14893✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-16942✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-16943✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-17267✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-17531✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-20330✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-8840✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-9546✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-9547✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-9548✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-10650✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-10672✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-10968✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-10969✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-11112✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-11113✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-11619✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-11620✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-14060- ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-14061- ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-14062- ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-14195- ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-24616✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-24750✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
jetty-server-9.4.10.v20180503
CVE-2019-10241✓ ✓ ✓ ✗
CVE-2019-10247- ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2019-17632- ✗ ✗ ✗
jetty-servlet-9.4.10.v20180503
CVE-2019-10241✓ ✗ ✗ ✗
jetty-util-9.4.10.v20180503
CVE-2019-10241- ✗ -b ✗
CVE-2019-10246- ✗ -b ✗
CVE-2021-44832- ✗ ✗ ✗
netty-all-4.0.36.Final
CVE-2021-21290- ✓ ✓ ✓
poi-ooxml-3.14
CVE-2019-12415✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
undertow-core-1.4.23.Final
CVE-2017-2670- ✗ ✗ ✓
aCVE actually affects Apache Wicket,
however, affected file is copied from
commons-fileupload
bThe NVD entry did not contain any
version indications
(b)Steadyreports
CVE KBGANVDSV
bcprov-jdk15on-1.58
CVE-2015-6644 - ✗ ✗ -
CVE-2016-1000338- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000339- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000340- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000341- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000342- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000343- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000344- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000345- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000346- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2016-1000352✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
commons-compress-1.9
CVE-2019-12402- ✗ ✗ ✗
groovy-all-2.4.7
CVE-2015-3253 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
hibernate-validator-5.4.1.Final
CVE-2014-3558 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
httpclient-4.5.2
CVE-2013-4366 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
jackson-databind-2.9.7
CVE-2017-17485- ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2018-5968 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2018-11307✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2018-12022✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2018-12023✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
jackson-dataformat-xml-2.9.3
CVE-2016-3720 - ✗ ✗ ✗
jetty-http-9.4.10.v20180503
CVE-2015-2080 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2017-7657 ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗
jetty-server-9.4.10.v20180503
CVE-2016-4800 - ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2017-7656 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2017-7657 ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗
CVE-2017-7658 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2018-12538- ✓ ✗ ✗
jetty-util-9.4.10.v20180503
CVE-2016-4800 - ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2017-9735 - ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2018-12536- ✗ ✗ ✓
okhttp-2.7.0
CVE-2016-2402 ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
spring-core-5.0.4.RELEASE
CVE-2015-0201 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
spring-oxm-5.0.4.RELEASE
CVE-2014-0054 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2014-0225 - ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2014-3578 - ✗ ✗ ✗
spring-web-5.0.4.RELEASE
CVE-2013-6429 ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2013-6430 - ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2014-0054 - ✗ ✗ ✗
CVE-2014-3578 - ✗ ✗ ✗
tomcat-embed-core-8.5.33
CVE-2020-13934- ✓ ✓ ✓
undertow-core-1.4.23.Final
CVE-2018-14642- ✓ -b ✓
CVE-2019-3888 - ✓ ✓ ✓
CVE-2020-10705- ✓ ✓ ✓
reports and manually inspected the corresponding fix commits to
identify potential sources of misclassification. UnlikeJaralyzer,
Eclipse Steadyproduces scan reports with limited details, which
makes it difficult to pinpoint the exact reasons behind erroneous re-
sults. The reports only list the CVE entries assigned to the scanned
artifacts and classify them as either “vulnerable” or “unknown”. In

Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden
37 of 44 cases,Eclipse Steadymarked the entries as “unknown”
and requested manual analysis.
Table 2a shows the CVE entries only reported byJaralyzer, with
corresponding artifacts in gray boxes. According to our manual
investigation, 35 out of 43 reports are true positives forJaralyzer
and false negatives forEclipse Steady. Note that 30 of them affect
jackson-databind.Eclipse Steadymisses those, even though source
code is available, because it cannot account for code transforma-
tions outside of methods, such as field initializations or initializer
blocks, due to its inability to directly compare bytecode with source
code. These jackson-databind vulnerability fixes consist of either
changing a regular expression stored in a field or adding entries
to serialization blocklists in static initializers. SinceJaralyzerop-
erates on bytecode rather than source code, and because the Java
compiler inlines field initializations and static initializer code into
methods, in contrast toEclipse Steady, it natively supports such
cases.
However, we also uncovered five cases whereJaralyzerre-
ported false positives, according to the advisories. All can be attrib-
uted to erroneously reporting a CVE for multiple modules of the
same project, due to spurious fix commits that contain changes unre-
lated to the actual fix as described in Section 4.2, or because of incor-
rect re-packaging matches due to the threshold configurations. For
CVE-2016-6793, whichJaralyzerreported as affecting commons-
fileupload-1.3.2, we made an interesting observation. While this
CVE entry actually affects Apache Wicket5,Jaralyzerreports it
because it detected a re-packaging of the class affected by the vulner-
ability. Further investigation revealed that the developers of Apache
Wicket copied vulnerable code from commons-fileupload into the
Wicket project. The vulnerability within commons-fileupload re-
ceived its own CVE entry 6, even though they describe the same
vulnerability. The CVE entry for commons-fileupload is not part
ofProject KBand thus not reported by either tool. Therefore,
we do not consider this as a clear false positive, but rather as an
unclear case. We identified three other unclear cases, where the
four advisories reported conflicting information.
To summarize, of the 43 CVE entries reported only byJaralyzer,
we classified 35 as true positives, 4 as false positives and 4 as unclear.
Table 2b contains the CVE entries only reported byEclipse
Steady. According to our investigation, 33 out of 44 are false posi-
tives. Only in 7 casesEclipse Steadyreported a true positive that
Jaralyzermissed. Furthermore, 4 reports are unclear, since the
advisories reported conflicting information. According toEclipse
Steady’s scan report, it was unable to automatically classify the
false positive cases and instead deferred their evaluation to manual
analysis. This might be due to an inability to retrieve the corre-
sponding source code, inaccuracies in the retrieved code or due
to ambiguous fix commit matches [40]. Due to the limited details
in the scan reports the exact cause cannot be determined. A simi-
lar issue appears for the fiveJaralyzerreports classified as true
positives, whichEclipse Steadymissed, excluding the ones re-
lated to jackson-databind. The corresponding fix commits involve
changes to method bodies and should be thus detectable byEclipse
5https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JAVA-ORGAPACHEWICKET-31022
6https://security.snyk.io/vuln/SNYK-JAVA-COMMONSFILEUPLOAD-30401
Steady. However, the scan report does not provide enough details
to determine the exact reason for the missed detections.
Using the same methodology, we also validated the 61 CVE re-
ports where both tools agree. According to the advisories, both tools
reported 28 true positives and 16 false positives. The 17 remaining
cases are unclear due to advisory disagreements.
As noted in Section 4.2, theAchillesbenchmark includes a
ground truth that we initially excluded from our experiments due
to identified inaccuracies. Based on the findings from this research
question, we conducted an additional validation of the provided
ground truth. Overall, it contains classifications only for 35 of the
148 CVE reports (23%) generated by eitherJaralyzerorEclipse
Steady, covering 9 of the 87 cases (9%) where the tools disagreed
and 26 of the 61 cases (42%) where they agreed. We further examined
the 10 out of 35 ground truth classifications that contradicted the
findings ofJaralyzer. This involved a manual review of the corre-
sponding reports, including an analysis of advisory data, inspection
of code changes in the relevant fix commits, and investigation of
related issue tracker entries. Our analysis indicated that 9 out of
the 10 disagreeing classifications were likely incorrect within the
ground truth. We reported these 9 discrepancies, as well as the 52
cases absent fromAchilles, whereJaralyzerand all considered
advisories agreed, to the authors ofAchilles, who subsequently
incorporated our feedback into the benchmark7.
JaralyzeroutperformsEclipse Steadyon unmodified depen-
dencies. It identifies 35 unique true positives while reporting
only 4 false positives. In contrast,Eclipse Steadydetects only
7 unique true positives but produces 33 false positives.
4.4 RQ3: Runtime Evaluation
We investigated how much time each of the scanners in our experi-
mental setup (see Section 4.1) required to perform a vulnerability
scan on the unmodified benchmark. On average, an industry-grade
Java project contains 36 dependencies [7]. In comparison, our bench-
mark incorporates moderately more dependencies than a typical
industry-grade project.
Code-centric scanners, in contrast to metadata-based scanners,
typically come with significant overhead, which naturally increases
the scan time.Jaralyzer, e.g., needs to extract methods from the
scanned JAR file, normalize and generate code property graphs for
them. These are all complex tasks, which take a non-trivial amount
of time. In total,Jaralyzertakes 131 seconds to scan the 56 OSS
dependencies in our benchmark. As stated previously, we execute
Jaralyzerin its default modeandre-packaging detection mode.
ExecutingJaralyzer’s re-packaging mode is only required to de-
tect type-4 modified dependencies. Running only its default mode,
Jaralyzerdoes not miss any vulnerabilities in the unmodified
benchmark and only takes 63 seconds. Meanwhile,Eclipse Steady
takes 1,387 seconds, requiring more than ten times the scanning
time for the benchmark. Due to the lightweight approach behind
metadata-based scanners, they require lower runtimes. Specifically,
OWASP DC required 9 seconds, OSV Scanner required 5 seconds,
7https://github.com/secure-software-engineering/achilles-benchmark-depscanners/
pull/ 44 & 45

Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable Dependencies in Java Projects
and the commercial scanner required 30 seconds. GitHub Depend-
abot performs the analysis automatically, when a commit contain-
ing dependency metadata is pushed to GitHub, where analysis
results can then be obtained via a request to the GitHub API. In
contrast to the other scanners, this analysis does not run locally,
but on the GitHub servers. We thus were unable to measure its
precise runtime and do not include it here.
For projects of above-average size,Jaralyzertakes between
63 and 131 seconds to complete the scan. Overall,Jaralyzer
is more than ten times faster thanEclipse Steady.
5 Threats to Validity
A few potential threats might impact the validity of our experiments
withJaralyzer. We used theAchillesbenchmark generator to
create the individual benchmarks serving as a baseline for our eval-
uation.Achillesonly provides versions of OSS artifacts released by
2021, thus for many artifacts we did not use the latest releases. Fur-
thermore, while we did not useAchillesinaccurate ground truth,
we still relied onAchillescorrectly modifying the dependency
inclusions. Although, our manual investigation revealed these to
be most likely correct. The number of CVE entries detected by
Jaralyzerwithin type 4 modifications depends on the configured
threshold parameters. Lowering these thresholds may enableJara-
lyzerto detect more CVE entries in the type 4 benchmark but could
also reduce its precision in the unmodified benchmark. We selected
the default values based on empirical testing with our benchmark.
However, this approach may lead to overfitting, meaning other
datasets might achieve better performance with different values.
Jaralyzerwas unable to compile 61 CVE entries fromProject KB,
which we therefore excluded from RQ2. However, in cases where
compilation fails or vulnerability fixes lack source code changes, the
detection can be augmented by using metadata, as demonstrated
byEclipse Steady. Finally, the effectiveness of code-centric depen-
dency scanning depends on the quality of fix commits. When fix
commits include spurious changes unrelated to the actual fix, the
dependency scanning performance may be affected.
6 Related Work
Current legislation like the EU’s Cyber Resilience Act and the US’s
Cybersecurity Executive Order require software development com-
panies to focus on the secure usage of OSS components. There-
fore many commercial and open-source tools have been developed
to detect known-to-be-vulnerable OSS dependencies. Within our
study we used the popular metadata-based tools OWASP DC [28],
OSV Scanner [ 18] and GitHub Dependabot [ 16], as well as the
code-centric toolEclipse Steady[ 32–34]. Over the years, the term
software composition analysis(SCA) has emerged to describe de-
pendency scanners, particularly in commercial contexts. Popular
commercial SCA tools include Endor Labs SCA [ 22], Snyk Open
Source SCA [23], Mend SCA [26] and Black Duck SCA [15].
Some approaches under the name of patch presence testing at-
tempt to decide whether a patch has been applied to a specific
binary. FIBER [50] generates signatures from the security patch’s
C/C++ source code and searches for its presence in the target binary.
Osprey [43] lifts the C/C++ binary into a platform-agnostic inter-
mediate representation (IR) and performs the patch presence test
based on this IR. PDiff [20] performs patch presence testing within
downstream kernel images by generating semantic summaries of
the patch and checking whether the target image is closer to the
image before or after the patch is applied. 𝑃𝑆 3 [47] uses semantics-
level symbolic execution to extract signatures that are stable under
different compiler options. It then uses those signatures to test the
presence of the patch within the target C/C++ binary. BScout [5]
uses feature-extraction and leverages line number information to
match lines of Java source code, belonging to the patch, to lines of
bytecode within the target file. Doing so, Dai et al. can determine
whether the patch has been applied or not. PPT4J [29] employs a
similar feature-extraction based approach, which extracts features
that are stable through the compilation process and uses these
features to determine whether the patch is applied or not. FIBER,
PDiff, and 𝑃𝑆 3 target C/C++ binaries, BScout and PPT4J address
Java applications. In the future the above mentioned approaches
could complimentary be integrated intoJaralyzer’s vulnerability
scanning stage to further aid with the CPG-based patch presence
testing. Since they do not perform the initial library matching nor
address modifications, we did not include them into our evaluation,
since a comparison with dependency scanners aiming for similar
goals is more relevant and adequate.
Some approaches explicitly target third-party library (TPL) iden-
tification for Android to find licensing issues or vulnerable com-
ponents usages. OSSPolice [9] finds license violations and security
risks within Android apps by maintaining a database of unique app
features and comparing the target app to this database to determine
the exact TPL used. ATVHunter [ 48] applies control-flow graph
based feature-extraction to more reliably identify the correct TPL
and version. PHunter [45] relies on special obfuscation-resilient
features to determine whether patches are applied to an Android
TPL, even with code obfuscations applied.
In recent years, researchers have published different approaches
to identify security-relevant commits and resulting fix-commit
databases. Ponta et al. [35] created a manually-curated set of fix
commits, calledProject KB, focusing on industry-relevant OSS
projects. Bhandari et al. [2] propose an approach that automatically
extracts fix commits from CVE entries within the NVD. They cre-
ate theCVEFixesdatabase, containing fix commits for 5,365 CVE
entries affecting OSS projects of various programming languages.
Sabetta et al. [37] propose the rule-based toolProspector, which
tries to automatically find and rank fix commits for specified vulner-
ability identifiers. Akhoundali et al. [1] propose an approach that
usesProspectorand create theMoreFixesdatabase, containing
fix commits for 26,617 CVEs affecting a diverse set of OSS projects.
7 Conclusion
This paper presentsJaralyzer, a novelbytecode-centricdependency
scanner for Java. While there are many open-source and commer-
cial dependency scanners available, none of the existing tools is
able to effectively deal with modified dependencies.Jaralyzer
is able to largely overcome these challenges. By adopting an ap-
proach independent of the dependency’s metadata or source code
availability and instead directly analyzing its bytecode,Jaralyzer

Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden
effectively detects known-to-be-vulnerable dependencies in Java
projects, even across all common types of modifications.
An evaluation performed on 56 popular OSS artifacts, including
five state-of-the-art dependency scanners, showcased that, while
all other tools suffer performance deterioration when dependencies
are modified,Jaralyzer’s performance remains stable. In few cases,
it was even able to exploit the modifications and report fewer false
positives. But even when dependencies are unmodified,Jaralyzer
outperforms the state-of-the-art code-centric dependency scanner
Eclipse Steady, by detecting more vulnerabilities and producing
fewer false alerts. These results positionJaralyzerto be the code-
centric dependency scanner of choice for Java projects, especially
when it comes to identifying modified dependencies.
Acknowledgement
This work was partially supported by the German Research Founda-
tion (DFG) within the Collaborative Research Centre ”On-The-Fly
Computing“ (GZ: SFB 901/3) under the project number 160364472.
References
[1] Jafar Akhoundali, Sajad Rahim Nouri, Kristian Rietveld, and Olga Gadyatskaya.
Morefixes: A large-scale dataset of cve fix commits mined through enhanced
repository discovery. InProceedings of the 20th International Conference on
Predictive Models and Data Analytics in Software Engineering, pages 42–51, 2024.
[2] Guru Bhandari, Amara Naseer, and Leon Moonen. Cvefixes: automated collection
of vulnerabilities and their fixes from open-source software. InProceedings of the
17th International Conference on Predictive Models and Data Analytics in Software
Engineering, pages 30–39, 2021.
[3] Benjamin Bowman and H Howie Huang. Vgraph: A robust vulnerable code clone
detection system using code property triplets. In2020 IEEE European Symposium
on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), pages 53–69. IEEE, 2020.
[4] The MITRE Corporation. About the CVE Program, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13.
URL: https://www.cve.org/About/Overview.
[5] Jiarun Dai, Yuan Zhang, Zheyue Jiang, Yingtian Zhou, Junyan Chen, Xinyu Xing,
Xiaohan Zhang, Xin Tan, Min Yang, and Zhemin Yang. {BScout}: Direct whole
patch presence test for java executables. In29th USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 20), pages 1147–1164, 2020.
[6] Andreas Dann, Ben Hermann, and Eric Bodden. Sootdiff: Bytecode compari-
son across different java compilers. InProceedings of the 8th ACM SIGPLAN
International Workshop on State of the Art in Program Analysis, pages 14–19, 2019.
[7] Andreas Dann, Henrik Plate, Ben Hermann, Serena Elisa Ponta, and Eric Bodden.
Identifying challenges for oss vulnerability scanners-a study & test suite.IEEE
Transactions on Software Engineering, 48(9):3613–3625, 2021.
[8] Jens Dietrich, Shawn Rasheed, Alexander Jordan, and Tim White. On the security
blind spots of software composition analysis. InProceedings of the 2024 Workshop
on Software Supply Chain Offensive Research and Ecosystem Defenses, pages 77–87,
2024.
[9] Ruian Duan, Ashish Bijlani, Meng Xu, Taesoo Kim, and Wenke Lee. Identifying
open-source license violation and 1-day security risk at large scale. InProceedings
of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on computer and communications security,
pages 2169–2185, 2017.
[10] Douglas Everson, Long Cheng, and Zhenkai Zhang. Log4shell: Redefining the
web attack surface. InProc. Workshop Meas., Attacks, Defenses Web (MADWeb),
pages 1–8, 2022.
[11] OWASP Foundation. OWASP Top Ten, 2021. Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https:
//owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/.
[12] The Apache Software Foundation. Apache Maven Dependency Plugin, 2024. Ac-
cessed 2024-12-16. URL: https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-dependency-
plugin.
[13] The Apache Software Foundation. Apache Maven Shade Plugin - Relocating
Classes, 2025. Accessed 2025-06-23. URL: https://maven.apache.org/plugins/
maven-shade-plugin/examples/class-relocation.html.
[14] Foyzul Hassan, Shaikh Mostafa, Edmund SL Lam, and Xiaoyin Wang. Automatic
building of java projects in software repositories: A study on feasibility and
challenges. In2017 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software
Engineering and Measurement (ESEM), pages 38–47. IEEE, 2017.
[15] Black Duck Software Inc. Black Duck SCA, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13.
URL: https://www.blackduck.com/software-composition-analysis-tools/black-
duck-sca.html.
[16] GitHub Inc. GitHub Dependabot Alerts, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13.
URL: https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-alerts/
about-dependabot-alerts.
[17] GitHub Inc. GitHub Advisory Database, 2025. Accessed 2025-06-01. URL:
https://github.com/advisories.
[18] Google Inc. OSV Scanner, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https://google.github.
io/osv-scanner/.
[19] Google Inc. OSV - Frequently Asked Questions, 2025. Accessed 2025-06-23.
URL: https://google.github.io/osv.dev/faq/#ive-found-something-wrong-with-
the-data.
[20] Zheyue Jiang, Yuan Zhang, Jun Xu, Qi Wen, Zhenghe Wang, Xiaohan Zhang,
Xinyu Xing, Min Yang, and Zhemin Yang. Pdiff: Semantic-based patch pres-
ence testing for downstream kernels. InProceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 1149–1163, 2020.
[21] Kadiray Karakaya, Stefan Schott, Jonas Klauke, Eric Bodden, Markus Schmidt,
Linghui Luo, and Dongjie He. Sootup: A redesign of the soot static analysis frame-
work. InInternational Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction
and Analysis of Systems, pages 229–247. Springer, 2024.
[22] Endor Labs. Endor Labs SCA, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https://www.
endorlabs.com/use-cases/reachability-based-sca.
[23] Snyk Limited. Snyk Open Source SCA, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https:
//snyk.io/product/open-source-security-management/.
[24] Snyk Limited. Snyk Vulnerability Database, 2025. Accessed 2025-01-10. URL:
https://security.snyk.io/.
[25] Jeff Luszcz. Apache struts 2: how technical and development gaps caused the
equifax breach.Network Security, 2018(1):5–8, 2018.
[26] Mend.io. Mend SCA, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https://www.mend.io/sca/.
[27] National Institute of Standarads and Technology. National Vulnerability Data-
base, 2025. Accessed 2025-01-10. URL: https://nvd.nist.gov/.
[28] OWASP. OWASP Dependency-Check, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https:
//owasp.org/www-project-dependency-check/.
[29] Zhiyuan Pan, Xing Hu, Xin Xia, Xian Zhan, David Lo, and Xiaohu Yang. Ppt4j:
Patch presence test for java binaries. InProceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th
International Conference on Software Engineering, pages 1–12, 2024.
[30] Henrik Plate. State of Dependency Management 2023, 2023. Accessed 2024-12-
13. URL: https://www.endorlabs.com/learn/state-of-dependency-management-
2023.
[31] Henrik Plate and Darren Meyer. 2024 Dependency Management Report, 2024.
Accessed 2024-12-13. URL: https://www.endorlabs.com/lp/2024-dependency-
management-report.
[32] Henrik Plate, Serena Elisa Ponta, and Antonino Sabetta. Impact assessment
for vulnerabilities in open-source software libraries. In2015 IEEE International
Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME), pages 411–420. IEEE,
2015.
[33] Serena Elisa Ponta, Henrik Plate, and Antonino Sabetta. Beyond metadata:
Code-centric and usage-based analysis of known vulnerabilities in open-source
software. In2018 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and
Evolution (ICSME), pages 449–460. IEEE, 2018.
[34] Serena Elisa Ponta, Henrik Plate, and Antonino Sabetta. Detection, assessment
and mitigation of vulnerabilities in open source dependencies.Empirical Software
Engineering, 25(5):3175–3215, 2020.
[35] Serena Elisa Ponta, Henrik Plate, Antonino Sabetta, Michele Bezzi, and Cédric
Dangremont. A manually-curated dataset of fixes to vulnerabilities of open-
source software. In2019 IEEE/ACM 16th International Conference on Mining
Software Repositories (MSR), pages 383–387. IEEE, 2019.
[36] RertireJS. Retire.js, 2024. Accessed 2024-12-16. URL: https://retirejs.github.io/
retire.js/.
[37] Antonino Sabetta, Serena Elisa Ponta, Rocio Cabrera Lozoya, Michele Bezzi,
Tommaso Sacchetti, Matteo Greco, Gergő Balogh, Péter Hegedűs, Rudolf Ferenc,
Ranindya Paramitha, et al. Known vulnerabilities of open source projects: Where
are the fixes?IEEE Security & Privacy, 2024.
[38] Stefan Schott, Wolfram Fischer, Serena Elisa Ponta, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden.
Compilation of commit changes within java source code repositories. In2024
IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME),
pages 325–336. IEEE, 2024.
[39] Stefan Schott, Serena Elisa Ponta, Wolfram Fischer, Jonas Klauke, and Eric Bodden.
Java bytecode normalization for code similarity analysis. In38th European
Conference on Object-Oriented Programming (ECOOP 2024). Schloss Dagstuhl–
Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik, 2024.
[40] SAP SE. Eclipse Steady - Library Assessment, 2021. Accessed 2025-06-25. URL:
https://eclipse-steady.github.io/steady/user/manuals/library_assessment/.
[41] Inc. Sonatype. Maven Central Repository - Requirements, 2025. Accessed 2025-
07-01. URL: https://central.sonatype.org/publish/requirements/#supply-javadoc-
and-sources.
[42] Matúš Sulír and Jaroslav Porubän. A quantitative study of java software buildabil-
ity. InProceedings of the 7th International Workshop on Evaluation and Usability
of Programming Languages and Tools, pages 17–25, 2016.

Bytecode-centric Detection of Known-to-be-vulnerable Dependencies in Java Projects
[43] Peiyuan Sun, Qiben Yan, Haoyi Zhou, and Jianxin Li. Osprey: A fast and accurate
patch presence test framework for binaries.Computer Communications, 173:95–
106, 2021.
[44] Michele Tufano, Fabio Palomba, Gabriele Bavota, Massimiliano Di Penta, Rocco
Oliveto, Andrea De Lucia, and Denys Poshyvanyk. There and back again: Can
you compile that snapshot?Journal of Software: Evolution and Process, 29(4):e1838,
2017.
[45] Zifan Xie, Ming Wen, Haoxiang Jia, Xiaochen Guo, Xiaotong Huang, Deqing Zou,
and Hai Jin. Precise and efficient patch presence test for android applications
against code obfuscation. InProceedings of the 32nd ACM SIGSOFT International
Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, pages 347–359, 2023.
[46] Fabian Yamaguchi, Nico Golde, Daniel Arp, and Konrad Rieck. Modeling and
discovering vulnerabilities with code property graphs. In2014 IEEE symposium
on security and privacy, pages 590–604. IEEE, 2014.
[47] Qi Zhan, Xing Hu, Zhiyang Li, Xin Xia, David Lo, and Shanping Li. Ps3: Precise
patch presence test based on semantic symbolic signature. InProceedings of the
IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering, pages 1–12,
2024.
[48] Xian Zhan, Lingling Fan, Sen Chen, Feng We, Tianming Liu, Xiapu Luo, and
Yang Liu. Atvhunter: Reliable version detection of third-party libraries for
vulnerability identification in android applications. In2021 IEEE/ACM 43rd
International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pages 1695–1707. IEEE,
2021.
[49] Chen Zhang, Bihuan Chen, Linlin Chen, Xin Peng, and Wenyun Zhao. A large-
scale empirical study of compiler errors in continuous integration. InProceedings
of the 2019 27th ACM joint meeting on european software engineering conference
and symposium on the foundations of software engineering, pages 176–187, 2019.
[50] Hang Zhang and Zhiyun Qian. Precise and accurate patch presence test for
binaries. In27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 18), pages 887–
902, 2018.